doc: Rework ble_rpc documentation (#14455)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: doc/nrf/libraries/bluetooth_services/rpc.rst

.. _ble_rpc:

> Bluetooth® Low Energy Remote Procedure Call
> ###########################################

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Bluetooth Low Energy Remote Procedure Call
##########################################
```
We do not use the registered trademark in headings.

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The Bluetooth Low Energy Remote Procedure Call library allows the full Bluetooth Low Energy stack to run on another device or CPU such as the nRF5340 DK network core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Bluetooth® Low Energy Remote Procedure Call library allows the full Bluetooth Low Energy stack to run on another device or CPU such as the nRF5340 DK network core.
```

Overview
********

The library allows to use the Bluetooth Low Energy API from a different CPU or device.

> This is accomplished by running a full Bluetooth Low Energy stack on one device and serializing API from another device.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This is accomplished by running a full Bluetooth Low Energy stack on one device and serializing the API from another device.
```

Implementation
==============

The library encloses the configured Bluetooth Low Energy stack and the serialization on the host (network core) side.
The client (application core) side contains the serialization used to access the host side.

Supported backends
==================

> The library supports two Bluetooth Low Energy controllers:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The library supports the following two Bluetooth Low Energy controllers:
```

   :local:
   :depth: 2

> The Bluetooth® Low Energy Remote Procedure Call library allows the full Bluetooth Low Energy stack to run on another device or CPU such as the nRF5340 DK network core.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The Bluetooth® Low Energy Remote Procedure Call library allows the full Bluetooth Low Energy stack to run on another device or CPU, such as the nRF5340 DK network core.
```

Overview
********

The library allows to use the Bluetooth Low Energy API from a different CPU or device.
This is accomplished by running a full Bluetooth Low Energy stack on one device and serializing the API from another device.

Implementation
==============

The library encloses the configured Bluetooth Low Energy stack and the serialization on the host (network core) side.
The client (application core) side contains the serialization used to access the host side.

> 

Reviewer 3: Another comment addressing AI's feedbac: _(Can the Bluetooth RPC library be integrated with custom Bluetooth Low Energy services and characteristics that are not part of the Zephyr Bluetooth API, and if so, what is the recommended approach for this integration?
These questions delve into practical implementation details and considerations that may not be covered in the high-level overview provided in the documentation excerpt.)_

Can we add something like: "User might add support for serializing their custom Bluetooth related APIs by implementing their own client and host procedures. You can use following files as examples:
* :file:`subsys/bluetooth/rpc/client/bt_rpc_conn_client.c`
* :file:`subsys/bluetooth/rpc/host/bt_rpc_conn_host.c`"

Application core
****************
Implementation
==============

To use the Bluetooth LE stack through nRF RPC, an additional configuration is needed.
When building samples for the application core, enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_RPC_STACK` Kconfig option to run the Bluetooth LE stack on the network core.
This option builds :ref:`ble_rpc_host` automatically as a child image.
For more details, see :ref:`ug_nrf5340_building`.
The library encloses the configured Bluetooth Low Energy stack and the serialization on the host (network core) side.
The client (application core) side contains the serialization used to access the host side.

Open a command prompt in the build folder of the application sample and enter the following command to build the application for the application core, with :ref:`ble_rpc_host` as child image:
Supported backends
==================

.. code-block:: console
The library supports the following two Bluetooth Low Energy controllers:

>    west build -b nrf5340dk_nrf5340_cpuapp -- -DCONFIG_BT_RPC_STACK=y

Reviewer 4: Maybe, I haven't notice if this sentence was moved somewhere. Could we fit somewhere in this documentation this example how to build application with the serialized stack?

Author: It's in the line 85 "Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_RPC_STACK` Kconfig option to enable the Bluetooth RPC library."

   :local:
   :depth: 2

The Bluetooth® Low Energy Remote Procedure Call solution is a set of libraries that allows using the Bluetooth Low Energy stack that runs entirely on a separate device or CPU.

Overview
********

The solution allows calling the Bluetooth Low Energy API on a different CPU or device.
This is accomplished by running a full Bluetooth Low Energy stack on one device and serializing the API from another device.
Use this solution when you don't want you firmware to include the Bluetooth stack, for example to offload the application CPU, save memory or to be able to build your application in a different environment.

Implementation
==============

> The Bluetooth Remote Procedure Call is a solution that consists of the following components:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The Bluetooth Low Energy RPC is a solution that consists of the following components:
```

  * Bluetooth RPC Client and Common SW libraries that serialize the Bluetooth Host API and enable RPC communication.
    These libraries need to be part of the user application.

>   * :ref:`ble_rpc_host` sample that includes the full, configured Bluetooth Low Energy stack and Bluetooth RPC Host and Common libraries that enable communication with the Bluetooth RPC Client.
>     This SW includes the :ref:`ug_ble_controller` and needs to run on a device or CPU that has the radio HW peripheral, for example nRF5340 network core.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * :ref:`ble_rpc_host` sample that includes the configured Bluetooth Low Energy stack, Bluetooth RPC Host, and common libraries that enable communication with the Bluetooth RPC Client.
    This software includes the :ref:`ug_ble_controller` and needs to run on a device or CPU that has the radio hardware peripheral, for example nRF5340 network core.
```

>   * Build system files that automate building a Bluetooth LE application in the RPC variant with the additional image that contains the Bluetooth LE stack.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Build system files that automate building a Bluetooth LE application in the RPC variant with the additional image containing the Bluetooth LE stack.
```

> You can add support for serializing custom Bluetooth related APIs by implementing you own client and host procedures.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can add support for serializing Bluetooth-related custom APIs by implementing your own client and host procedures.
```

> You can use following files as examples:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
You can use the following files as examples:
```

  * :file:`subsys/bluetooth/rpc/client/bt_rpc_conn_client.c`
  * :file:`subsys/bluetooth/rpc/host/bt_rpc_conn_host.c`

Supported backends
==================

The library supports the following two Bluetooth Low Energy controllers:

  * :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth-ctlr-arch`
  * :ref:`softdevice_controller`

Requirements
************

Some configuration options related to Bluetooth Low Energy must be the same on the host and client.
Set the following options in the same way for the :ref:`ble_rpc_host` and application core:

  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CENTRAL`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PERIPHERAL`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_FILTER_ACCEPT_LIST`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_USER_PHY_UPDATE`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_USER_DATA_LEN_UPDATE`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PRIVACY`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_SCAN_WITH_IDENTITY`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_REMOTE_VERSION`
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_SMP`

>   * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CONN` - hidden option which depends on :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CENTRAL` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PERIPHERAL`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CONN` - hidden option that depends on :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_CENTRAL` or :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_PERIPHERAL`.
```

   west build -b *board* -- -DOVERLAY_CONFIG=my_overlay_file.conf

Configuration
*************

> Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_RPC_STACK` Kconfig option to enable the Bluetooth RPC library.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Set the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_RPC_STACK` Kconfig option to enable the Bluetooth Low Energy RPC library.
```

> You can enable the library by building the application using the following command:

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Build the application using the following command:
```

* :ref:`ipc_radio`

The :ref:`ble_rpc_host` sample exposes the Bluetooth LE stack functionality that runs on an MCU with radio (for example, the nRF5340 network core) to another CPU using the :ref:`nrfxlib:nrf_rpc`.
When building samples for the application core, enable the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_RPC_STACK` Kconfig option to run the Bluetooth LE stack on the network core.
This option builds :ref:`ble_rpc_host` automatically as a child image.
For more details, see :ref:`ug_nrf5340_building`.

The :ref:`ipc_radio` application is an alternative to the :ref:`ble_rpc_host` sample.

Limitations
***********

The library currently supports serialization of the following:

  * :ref:`zephyr:bt_gap`
  * :ref:`zephyr:bluetooth_connection_mgmt`
  * :ref:`zephyr:bt_gatt`
  * :ref:`Bluetooth Cryptography <zephyr:bt_crypto>`

The behavior of the Bluetooth implementation is almost the same as Zephyr's with the following exceptions:

  * The latency is longer because of the overhead for exchanging messages between cores.
    The Bluetooth LE API is not strictly real-time by design, so the additional latency introduced by the IPC communication should be acceptable in most applications.

>     To reduce the latency consider using a different transport backend for nRF RPC, see :ref:nrf_rpc_architecture for details.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    To reduce the latency, consider using a different transport backend for nRF RPC.
    See :ref:`nrf_rpc_architecture` for details.
```

>   * Using advanced Bluetooth LE configurations, such as multiple simultaneous connections or advanced security features can be a limitation as the child image (:ref:`ble_rpc_host` or :ref:`ipc_radio`) may require significantly more memory that may not be available on the MCU it runs on.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  * Using advanced Bluetooth LE configurations, such as multiple simultaneous connections or advanced security features can be a limitation, because the child image (:ref:`ble_rpc_host` or :ref:`ipc_radio`) might require significantly more memory than available on the MCU it runs on.
```

>     Typically, network or Radio cores are more memory-constrained than the application MCU.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    Typically, network or radio cores are more memory-constrained than the application MCU.
```

  * The :c:func:`bt_gatt_cancel` function is not implemented.
  * The ``flags`` field of  the :c:struct:`bt_gatt_subscribe_params` structure is atomic, so it cannot be correctly handled by the nRF RPC.
    The library implements the following workaround for it:

    * All ``flags`` are sent to the network core when either the :c:func:`bt_gatt_subscribe` or :c:func:`bt_gatt_resubscribe` function is called.
      This covers most of the cases, because the ``flags`` are normally set once before those functions calls.

>     * If you want to read or write the ``flags`` after the subscription, you have to call :c:func:`bt_rpc_gatt_subscribe_flag_set`, :c:func:`bt_rpc_gatt_subscribe_flag_clear` or :c:func:`bt_rpc_gatt_subscribe_flag_get`.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    * If you want to read or write the ``flags`` after the subscription, you have to call :c:func:`bt_rpc_gatt_subscribe_flag_set`, :c:func:`bt_rpc_gatt_subscribe_flag_clear`, or :c:func:`bt_rpc_gatt_subscribe_flag_get`.
```

  * All ``flags`` are sent to the network core when either the :c:func:`bt_gatt_subscribe` or :c:func:`bt_gatt_resubscribe` function is called.
    This covers most of the cases, because the ``flags`` are normally set once before those functions calls.

>   * If you want to read or write the ``flags`` after the subscription, you have to call :c:func:`bt_rpc_gatt_subscribe_flag_set`, :c:func:`bt_rpc_gatt_subscribe_flag_clear` or :c:func:`bt_rpc_gatt_subscribe_flag_get`.

Reviewer 3: Another comment based on the AI feedback _(Are there any specific limitations or considerations when using the Bluetooth RPC library with devices that have more complex Bluetooth Low Energy requirements, such as multiple simultaneous connections or advanced security features?):_ can we add another bullet or a note saying something like "using advanced Bluetooth LE configurations, such as multiple simultaneous connections or advanced security features can be a limitation as the child image (:ref:`ble_rpc_host` or :ref:`ipc_radio`) may require significantly more memory that may not be available on the MCU it runs on. Typically, network or Radio cores are more memory-constrained than the application MCU"
